Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we're going to reposition the stars if they go off either side of the screen.
All right, now, first things first, let's go over the theory first so the implementation is easier.
So if I reload this page, you can see that because we have only specified the horizontal velocity,
we can see that our stores only work even only move even towards the right, either towards the right
or left.
There is no up and down movement.
That's something that we are going to do next.
But now what we are going to do is let's go over the theory so we can we know that this this if we move
from one side of the screen to the next side of the screen to the other side, this is horizontal movement.
Right.
And if we move to the right, it is positive numbers.
If we move to the left, it's negative.
So where does this positive and negative numbers they their origin.
So this right up the edge of the screen, right towards the edge, this is zero.
So right up up against this edge, it is X is zero.
So if something goes off the cat of the of the right, we know when it goes the off of the left side,
what happens.
But what about if it goes what what about if it goes off the right side.
We would say that it has gone above the value of the canvas.
Start with because in this case can we start with was how much was it?
Let me just bring it back.
So can we start with is in this case, just do that, bring it up a little.
Can we start with is 877.
So when it is eight seventy seven if something travels to 878.
Plus its radius, then we say that it has moved completely off the screen from the right, if it goes
zero below zero plus it's full with, we can say that it has moved off the left of the screen by its
full with.
Now, that is the eye.
That is the.
Theory behind it.
Now let's dive into the implementation, which is usually the trickier part.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to come down here because we are still and I'm going to stay
within this loop.
I should stay within that.
And I'm going to say reposition stars if I'm not to the other to the other side of the screen.
If not, I'm not going to say it's not an if.
It's a when when they move off either it's either side of the screen.
Right.
So so we need an if statement.
Why would we need an if statement.
Because we need to check whether they have gone off the left side of the screen or right side of the
screen.
So if if the stars if each of the stars horizontal position is less than zero.
All right, it means that they have gone where to the left of the screen, off the left of the screen,
and I said the radius don't don't forget the radius, because we want to make sure that they have gone
completely off, not like by one percent are.
For example, the radius is, let's say, 10 pixels.
Right.
If they have gone one pixel off the screen of the radius, we don't want them to be shown from the other
side.
When they go off completely, then we want to show them from the on the other side.
That's why we are going to use the radius as well, star radius.
So if this is the condition, it means that they have gone off the left side of the field, then what
do we want to do?
We want to grab the horizontal position.
They can see we just want to change that horizontal position.
What do we want to change it to?
What is canvas element that with what is it is from this all the way to here?
So that is the maximum with.
Right.
So we are going to grab canvas element art with now we need to add the radius as well.
So we need to account for the radius dot star radius.
Now, if I save this and if I come here, you can see that they go off this side and they appear on
this side.
It is the case that when they go off completely, then they appear completely.
That's the condition.
They should go off completely if they have gone up by 50 percent of their radius.
We don't want to show them.
It should go completely off that side.
Then we want to show them.
See, they come like like flooding in from the other side.
See now.
But the thing is, if they go from this side, we have not provided any statement for that.
They don't appear from this site.
So we are just going to say, hmm, and al-Assaf, let's do analysis, because it's within the same
if Stedman block, if the stars now keep this in mind, if they go off this side of the screen, it
means that canvas that with.
Is full, all right, plus, we need to account for the entire radius, so we are going to grab the
radius as well.
So if stars horizontal position, horizontal position is greater than the canvas element that height
greater, it means they're moved on the right side of the field.
Plus, let's grab the radius as well.
So Star's idot radius.
So we account for the full star itself, not half of it or one percent of it.
If this is the condition, what do we want to do?
Again, we want to grab our stars stars horizontal position and where do we want to put it?
We want to put it right here.
Whereas is here this is zero, right?
So I'm just going to say zero.
Now, where is the radius?
We need to provide the radius as well.
So that star radius.
Let's say it.
Come here, check it out.
So let's move it faster, faster.
It doesn't it doesn't show it, they move they move off this side, but they do not appear from this
side.
The other one worked.
Right.
So we can see that they appear from this side.
OK, so let's see what's happening here.
Canvas element that with so else, if we say that if stars horizontal position is greater than canvas
element, let's go to we don't have any errors in the console.
It should work.
I mean, technically, if there isn't any misspelled thing.
So al-Assaf stars horizontal position is greater than canvases.
With plus stars, I oh, here is the problem.
This should be stars radius.
Perfect, save it.
Let's come here.
So now they go off this side of the screen.
They do not appear still.
So is there something mistyped?
So it is it is the same thing that we have there, the same thing that we have there.
So.
Oh, its star is misspelled.
That's why it doesn't work stars.
So it works from that site.
And you can see it, they start appearing when they start disappearing from this side.
They started here.
It was just a question of like basic typo.
All right, let's remove this.
Come on, buddy, maybe he doesn't want to be closed.
It doesn't work, it's.
Close.
All right, so let's test it out, we can see that they started appearing, they start appearing from
this side, they go disappear to the right here from the left, disappeared to the left, appear from
the right.
Perfect.
Now, you might be asking, what about the uproar for this part and this part?
Now, I'm going to do that in this lecture as well.
I know it's been like 13 minutes, but you know what?
The concept is actually the same.
So I'm just going to copy that and I'm going to paste it down here.
We talked a lot about it.
So repositions stars to the two top.
To top slash bottom side of the screen when they move off, this is a typo here as well.
Etai mother move off either either from the top or or bottom.
I think this is grammatically correct.
So what we want to do here, we want to say so.
First off, let's change all these horizontal positions to vertical positions.
And we say that this is going to be the same and this canvas with is going to be extinguished.
And I think that sets.
So let's save it.
So, oh, they do not go because we have not also set up the you remember.
Right.
We updated stars horizontal position.
We need to update these stars vertical position as well.
So the vertical position, I'm just going to copy both of them and I'm going to say vertical and the
vertical position is going to add on the vertical velocity times time difference times point zero one.
Save it.
Come here.
So now let's change it.
Reload the page, it should work.
I mean.
If there isn't, it doesn't mean we should have gotten something by now.
So where we are, so it's vertical position.
Vertical, is it?
Are there is a team missing verticle?
It's always these tapes now you can see there we go, so they go to top and they appear from the bottom.
Of course, diagonally and again the same direction, and they go to bottom diagonally and they appear
from the top.
So let's reload.
Let's check all the conditions.
Why do they only move in these two directions?
They should move to the right.
Let's come let's check this one out.
I mean.
So that's that was tough.
Let's get a left or right.
This is almost right, left, right.
You can see these they go to this side, so I mean, everything is working perfectly fine now.
There we go.
So you can see they appear to the left.
The ones that appear to the left are the ones that appear from the right and the ones that appear to
the top.
They appear from the bottom.
So it's working correctly.
And it's super slow, super slow.
All right, and.
It's a mixture of both of them, that's why they move diagonally.
It's a mixture.
I mean, let me check this one out.
Let's see.
Hmm.
Oh, there we got that.
It is random, so you need to refresh the page to get that now.
There we go.
We get this.
We got it, we got it.
Let's do this.
Let's get one for this one as well.
So come on, give me a sort of horizontal thing, sort of.
Come on, you can do it.
Or let's just check the code.
So if the vertical position it works, if the vertical position.
Is less than zero plus the stars radius, then we want to set the vertical position to the canvas is
Eigsti height.
All right, perfect canvas height and plus the stars star radius.
That part recarpet.
And if the stars vertical position is greater than the canvas is height we want plus these stars radius.
We want to reposition the the star is vertical position.
So if I highlighted.
Yes, it is highlighted.
That's correct.
Zero minus stars, stars, star radius.
I mean the concept is perfect.
And it's not even that that many lines of code, it's almost 90, so you should get that from.
For some reason, we are not getting it.
It's been 18 minutes.
Come on, buddy.
Give me something, it's just either this diagonal, it doesn't move this, I mean, there is something
wrong with this.
I'm sure there is, because this one, it moves it moves from this diagonal, from this part as well.
I mean, there is something wrong with that.
So it moves in this case.
You can see that we don't have to switch so many times.
So it moves in this in this direction as well.
And, um.
Hmm.
All right.
I know it's been 18 minutes, but I have to find this thing.
It doesn't work.
It just works in two directions diagonally this way and diagonal this way.
It shouldn't do that.
All right, I'm pretty sure that it isn't misspell, I'm sure on that part, because otherwise, if
there were something else, we should see an error here.
I mean, if there were like a an assignment, a variable that doesn't exist or an assignment to the
considerable, we would have seen an error.
So when there is no error, it's most likely something a mistake.
So I'm going to go over this and we have our horizontal position.
You can see that they have been highlighted here.
And if I come on top, this is highlighted there as well.
So I'm going to highlight this vertical position.
It has been highlighted here and it has been highlighted here.
And the next thing that we have is I'm going to highlight our horizontal velocity.
There it is.
And there it is.
And then I'm going to highlight a vertical velocity, which is here.
This is vertical velocity.
It's here and it's highlighted the horizontal one more time.
Here, here, here.
Why do we get more horizontal than vertical here, so we get do we do get one so?
So for vertical, I'm going to get this one and this one we don't get this one because we specified
it using this, so.
But it says vertical velocity, here is why why does it say horizontal, it should say vertical and
I think this is going to be the problem vertical.
So vertical velocity was actually equal to horizontal velocity.
And this is random sign.
All right.
So let's say let's come here and I can see that fixed.
And now you can see they come from the top.
They go that way diagonally.
They go this way.
Diagonally they go.
This they go this to the bottom left and there we go, we get it to one side, let's see if we can get
it to the other side.
Come on, come on, it's a lot of randomness, we don't get it slightly, the ones which appear from
here from the right are the ones which disappear to the left.
Come on.
Give me one.
Perfect like that one.
It's random, so it's really difficult to get that sometimes.
It's almost almost like that for these particles.
So let's see if we get now.
This is good.
See if we get it on this side.
This is the thing.
Oh, we got it in the previous one anyways, that's it for this like for this lecture and this chapter
and this project.
That's it.
We are done.
And I'm sorry for this one.
It was just this is the problem when you copy paste something.
And I think we are done here and we did we covered a lot of cool ideas which which are going to help
us a lot when we want to create our games.
So that's it.
See you guys in the next project.